Elastic Block Storage (EBS) is a virtual hard disk. Snapshot is a point-in-time copy of that disk
Volumes exist on EBS. Snapshots are stored on S3
If taking a Snapshot of a root volume, the EC2 instance should be stopped before snapshotting.
You can take Snapshot while the instance is still running
You can create AMIs from Volumes, or from Snapshots.
EBS Volumes are durable, a block-level storage device that you can attach to a single EC2 instance.
EBS volumes do not need to be attached to an instance.
You can attach multiple EBS volumes to an instance
You cannot attach an EBS volume to multiple instances (use Elastic File Store instead --> Biggest differences between EFS and EBS). (Exception:16 Nitro-based instances in the same Availability Zone)
Volume sizes and types can be upgraded without downtime (except for magnetic standard).
Volumes always exist in the same AZ as the EC2 instance.
Instance store volumes are a temporary storage type located on a disc that is physically attached to a host machine.
Snapshots capture a point-in-time state of an instance. it can be used to migrate a system to a new AZ or region.
You can resize volumes by restoring snapshots with different sizes (configured when taking the snapshot).
Instance store volumes (ephemeral) cannot be stopped. If the host fails then you lost your data
EBS backed instances can be stopped and you will not lose any data.
By default root volumes are deleted on termination
EBS volumes can have termination protection (don’t delete the volume on termination)
You can encrypt both the boot and data volumes of an EC2 instance. When you create an encrypted EBS volume and attach it to a supported instance type, the following types of data are encrypted:
  - Data at rest inside the volume.
  - All data moving between the volume and the instance.
  - All snapshots created from the volume.
  - All volumes created from those snapshots.
You cannot share a snapshot if it has been encrypted.
Unencrypted snapshots can be shared with other AWS accounts or made public
To migrate volumes between AZ’s create a snapshot then create a volume in another AZ from the snapshot (possible to change size and type).
Instance store is ideal for temporary storage of information that changes frequently, such as buffers, caches, scratch data, and other temporary content, or for data that is replicated across a fleet of instances, such as a load-balanced pool of web servers.
Instance store is a good option when you need storage with very low latency, but you don’t need the data to persist when the instance terminates or you can take advantage of fault-tolerant architectures.




